=head1 MailMan archive migration tools

=head2 INTRODUCTION

This is a set of scripts to assist in migrating archives from a MailMan mailing
list into another system.  It was originally written to export to Google Groups
via SMTP delivery but it should work with any SMTP-routable list management
system.

=head2 ABOUT

MailMan's primary archival mechanism is mbox files, but it appears a bug
L<[1]|/[1]> was introduced at some point which results in improper formatting of
those files.  The problems include:

=over

=item *

Occasional omission of the required extra newline before the "From" message
separater line, leading to run-together messages

=item *

Occurrences of "From" at the beginning of lines in the body are not escaped,
possibly causing messages to be split erroneously.

=back

There are some recipes and scripts out there to solve some of these problems
(e.g. L<[2]|/[2]>) but they seem either overly complex or incomplete.

In addition, Google Groups seems to thread messages incorrectly when an archive
is blasted through all at once.  The default migration script introduces a
two-second delay between messages to help alleviate this.

=head2 IMPLEMENTATION

The current solution consists of one perl script to clean up the message
separators (filter.pl), one shell script to pipe the resulting output through formail (migrate_smtp.sh), and
another shell script to introduce the delay and call sendmail (send.sh).  The
perl script does read the whole mbox file into memory at once (due to laziness
-- this should be fixed) so big archives could be a problem.

There are also a few other scripts to aid in debugging and testing the process.

=head2 USAGE

migrate_smtp.sh is the front-end script that does everything.  Pass it the path
to the mbox archive file and the address of the new mailing list:

=over

  ./migrate_smtp.sh oldlist.mbox newlist@example.com

=back

Note that it will pause for two seconds between messages.  Edit send.sh if you
want to modify that, but beware that Google Groups seems to require the delay
in order to prevent it from getting confused about message thread order.

You can run filter.pl on the mbox file first and compare the output to the
original file to preview the changes before actually sending any mail:

=over

  perl filter.pl oldlist.mbox | diff -u oldlist.mbox -

=back

NOTE: It would probably be wise to disable message delivery for the receiving
list before migrating the archive, or perform the migration before any
subscribers are added to the receiving list.  Otherwise all subscribers of the
receiving list will receive a copy of all archived messages, which could amount
to a substantial amount of mail for an old or large list.

NOTE2: Some groups may disable posting from non members of the group, which
will prevent posts from non-members of the group to appear in the Google Group
archives. This will happen if there were people who posted to a mailing-list
and have now left the organization, such that they are not members of the
Google Groups.

On top of temporarily turning off email delivery for the receiving group, you
might want to turn on Public posting (Permissions -> Posting permissions ->
Check the Public option). Not doing so will typically result in former members
of the mailing-list to not appear, which could mangle the topics/conversations
significantly.

NOTE3: SMTP migration will preserve the order of the messages relative to each
other but the original dates and times as they appear in the mailman archive
will be completely lost, since Google Groups will be receiving these messages
at the time you migrate them via SMTP.

=head2 FOOTNOTES

=over

=item [1]

http://mail.python.org/pipermail/mailman-developers/2003-April/015017.html

=item [2]

http://wiki.list.org/display/DOC/Processing+old+mbox+archives+with+procmail-formail

=back

